Improperly scoped admin privileges (#227)
SmartContractSecurity/SWC-registry: entries/SWC-X.md

# Title
Non-Scoped Admin Privileges

## Relationships
[ 		
CWE-798: Use of Hard-coded Credentials](https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/798.html)

## Description

> It is a common practice in the Ethereum development community to use a system of access controls which use msg.sender and stored addresses as validation. Particularly prevalent are usage of owner accounts which have very high levels of control over the contract. A SWC-130 vulnerability occurs when these privileges allow an owner account to preform actions which are not scoped to be inline with intent of the contract.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is a common practice in the Ethereum development community to use a system of access controls which use msg.sender and stored addresses as validation. Particularly prevalent are usage of owner accounts which have administrative controls. A SWC-130 vulnerability occurs when these privileges allow an owner account to perform actions which are not scoped to be inline with intent of the contract.
```

> A system with non-scoped admin privileges assumes that non-one except the true owner will be able to access the admin key. However there are a myriad of situations in which offchain security problems will reveal the private key. For example in an improperly secured production server a side channel attack may leak the cryptographic key. A system with improperly scoped admin privileges depends on perfect offchain security to remain secure, which is a hard feat to accomplish.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A system with non-scoped admin privileges assumes that no one except the true owner will be able to access the admin key. However there are a myriad of situations in which offchain security problems will reveal the private key. For example in an improperly secured production server a side channel attack may leak the cryptographic key. A system with improperly scoped admin privileges depends on perfect offchain security to remain secure, which is a hard to accomplish.
```

An example of such a problem would be a mintable ERC20-token which allows the admin address to mint as many tokens as desired. In this case a malicious party who gains access to the token's admin account can give themselves as many tokens as desired, sell them all at once, and thus drive the token price down. A real world example of this is the [PRL token hack](https://beincrypto.com/prl-coin-oyster-pearl-exit-scam/), though this case is slightly more complex.

> ## Remediation

Reviewer: I think if an administrative action is reasonable or not is subjective and might be out of scope. I would write something like this as the remediation. 

Smart contracts should always be as trust-less as possible. The reality though is that most systems allow some kind of administrative controls to give the project team an option to influence the contracts after deployment. Administrative actions should always be documented and articulated why they are required so that users can form an opinion if they want to use such a system. They should also follow best practices and reduce the risk of a hack or misuse. For example the key that could trigger an administrative action should not be stored on a live system or be accessible to single actor.

Author: I agree that this is extremely subjective, and yet it's still a common class of issue, and would benefit from having a classification. 
Do you think the following things would be sufficient to make this merge-able? 

1. Focus on lack of documentation and communication, rather than the 'scoping' of privileges.
2. Rewriting along the lines of your suggestions. 
3. Fixing CI checks.

Reviewer: cool
